First lets get what a Thread is in a playful way. 

Suppose we own a restaurant(our computer) and there a head chef (our program). If head chef has to do everything 
on his own then it will take time and is not efficient. So we can hire some asssistant chef instead, who will help 
our head chef in assisting activities like chopping veggies, so at the same time our head can focus on other works
and provides quality and quickly serving to our customer. 

Same thread is like chef asssistant in the kitchen helping the Chef to run the system and all the activities 
simultaneously. 

There are two ways to create threads in java. 
    a)By extending thread Class
        => We can create a class exending Thread and override its run method which contains the code the Thread
            will execute.

    b)By implementing the Runnable Interface
        => It allows us to seperate the task from the thread exectution, giving more flexibility when working with
           thread pools and other concurrency frameworks. 

THREAD LIFECYCLE
    A thread goes through various states during its lifecycle. 
        NEW: When a thread is created.
        RUNNABLE: When the thread is ready to run. 
        BLOCKED: When a thread is waiting for a monitor lock. 
        WAITING: When a thread is waiting indefinetly for another thread to perform a particular task. 
        TIME PERIOD: When a thread is waiting for another thread for a specific time. 
        TERMINATE: When a thread has completed its execution. 

THREAD SCHEDULING: 
    A JVM perfoms scheduling of threads based on different factors like priority order and scheduling's 
    algorithms. Each thread has its priority (for Example: Thread.MIN_PRIORITY and Thread.MAX_PRIORITY) that helps
    the scheduler to detemine the execution order. And there is also another algorithm like ROBIN
    (still to be figure out)

SYNCHNORISATION:
    When there a multiple threads runnign, so to avoid interference we use synchnorisation. To achieve this we have following 
    two ways: 
        a) synchnorised methods : We can just synchnorised keywords while defining methods. 
        b) synchnorised Blocks: We can achieve more fine grained control over synchnorisation.

Inter-Thread communication: 
    wait() : makes the current thread to wait until another invokes notify() or notifyAll().
    notify() : makes up a single Thread that is waiting on the object monitor.
    notifyAll(): makes up a all Thread that is waiting on the object monitor.

THREAD POOLING: 
    We don’t need to create new thread all the time. We have thread pools, we can get the thread from there. 
    To achieve this we have Executers frameworks which provides various pool implementation.

FORK/JOIN Framework: 
    These are designed for parallelism, allowing for efficient exectution of task that can be broken into sub
    smaller tasks. 

BEST PRACTICES WHILE WORKING WITH THREADS: 
    -> Prefer using Runnable/Callable instead extending Thread class. 
    -> Use synchnorisation wisely to avoid bottlenecks. 
    -> Avoid using Thread.stop(), which can leave shared data in an inconsitent state. 
    -> Consider using high level concurrency utilities from java.util.concurrent package. 

COMMON ISSUES WHILE WORKING WITH THREADS: 
    -> DEADLOCK: A condition where two threads are blocked on forever, each waiting on each other. 
    -> RACE CONDITION: When two or more threads tries to access shared data , it leads to unexpected results. 
    -> STARVATION: A situation where a thread is  perpetually denied access to data. 

